# DeviceScript Manager

    identifier: 0x1134ea2b
    tags: management, devicescript
    restricted: true

Allows for deployment and control over DeviceScript virtual machine.

Programs start automatically after device restart or uploading of new program.
You can stop programs until next reset by setting the `running` register to `0`.

TODO - debug interface:
* read-globals command/register
* globals-changed pipe
* breakpoint command
* some performance monitoring?

## Commands

    unique command deploy_bytecode @ 0x80 {
        bytecode_size: u32 B
    }
    report {
        bytecode_port: pipe_port
    }

Open pipe for streaming in the bytecode of the program. The size of the bytecode has to be declared upfront.
To clear the program, use `bytecode_size == 0`.
The bytecode is streamed over regular pipe data packets.
The bytecode shall be fully written into flash upon closing the pipe.
If `autostart` is true, the program will start after being deployed.
The data payloads, including the last one, should have a size that is a multiple of 32 bytes.
Thus, the initial bytecode_size also needs to be a multiple of 32.

    command read_bytecode @ 0x81 {
        bytecode: pipe
    }
    pipe report bytecode {
        data: bytes
    }

Get the current bytecode deployed on device.

    enum MessageFlags : u8 {
        ToBeContinued = 0x01
    }
    report log_message @ 0x82 {
        counter: u8
        flags: MessageFlags
        message: string
    }

Generated by `console.log()` calls from DeviceScript program.
The counter starts at `0`, increments by `1` for each packet and wraps around.
It can be used to detect if some messages are missing.
If message is too long to fit in a single packet, it will be fragmented (this is not implemented yet).
In a fragmented message, all packets except for the last one have `ToBeContinued` flag set.
Note that `counter` field will increase in each fragment.
`log_message` reports are only sent when `logging == true`.


## Registers

    rw running: bool @ 0x80

Indicates if the program is currently running.
To restart the program, stop it (write `0`), read back the register to make sure it's stopped,
start it, and read back.

    rw autostart: bool @ 0x81

Indicates wheather the program should be re-started upon `reboot()` or `panic()`.
Defaults to `true`.

    rw logging: bool @ 0x82

`log_message` reports are only sent when this is `true`.
It defaults to `false`.

    ro program_size: u32 @ 0x180

The size of current program.

    ro program_hash: u32 @ 0x181

Return FNV1A hash of the current bytecode.

    ro program_sha256: bytes { max_bytes = 32 } @ 0x182

Return 32-byte long SHA-256 hash of the current bytecode.

## Events

When program is running, `status_code == Ready`.
When there is a valid program, but it is not running, `status_code == Sleeping`.
When there is no valid program, `status_code == WaitingForInput`.

    event program_panic @ 0x80 {
        panic_code: u32
        program_counter: u32
    }

Emitted when the program calls `panic(panic_code)` or `reboot()` (`panic_code == 0` in that case).
The byte offset in byte code of the call is given in `program_counter`.
The program will restart immediately when `panic_code == 0` or in a few seconds otherwise.

    event program_change @ change

Emitted after bytecode of the program has changed.
